No, football was, I guess Aggies have always been
wild about football, as everybody is in Texas, I
think. And, you know, we really loved football,
and knowing a lot of the players, because as a
freshman, that was the first time that the
football players had lived in the outfits that
year of 1941. Prior to that, they had all lived in
dorm 12 or a athletic dormitory where they were all
together. But this year was the first time they
tried an experiment of putting them all back in
there. Did you have any athletes in your outfit?
No, none. Well, we had one, Freddie Walters. You
know Freddie? He's over there. I think he's still
with the bank. Freddie was in our outfit. He was a
year ahead of me. And I believe that was the only one
we had in our outfit. All right. On a game day, had
classes on Saturday morning, and then did you all
march in? Yes. The Corps did march in? Well, wait a
minute. Let's see. I'm getting to it. No, we didn't
march in. Uh-uh. No. So you just went on your own.
That's right. But in uniform. When I say we didn't
march in, we usually went in behind the band. But, I
mean, there was no, not like they do now and really
have a march in. No, we just went on our own. What
were some memorable moments for you of that fall's
football season?
Well...
I don't know. I just... Did you go to some
out-of-town games? Oh yes, yes. Well, we had a
court trip to, let's see, my freshman year we had a
court trip to Dallas and Fort Worth. It seemed
like- Now normally didn't go to Oh, wait a minute.
No, one year we went, I'm trying to think, we were
sophomores when we went to Fort Worth. I guess we
went to Dallas as freshmen. Dallas and Houston?
And Houston. Yeah, yeah. The Houston
trip was, let's see.
Well, anyway, let's go back to a few days before the
Houston game, the Rice game.
We had some adventurous freshmen who decided
they'd steal Sammy the Rice Owl. And they did. They
got down there and they got Sammy from the trophy
case and got outside the building, but they didn't
get off campus. They were caught. And
there was a picture, I believe, in the Post. It
might have been the Chronicle. I think it was They
caught these Aggies, and they shaved their heads,
with the exception of four of them, and they left an
R, an I, C, E. And they had them all down on all fours.
And they took their picture. And I believe it was in
the Houston Post. I'm not sure. But anyway, they
get back to College Station.
the paper comes out and anyway the Bulls office
figures we're going to have these guys nailed.
Well, they didn't count on the ingenuity of some
Aggies, so every outfit we drew straws
One boy in every outfit had to have his head shaved.
So they did, and as far as I know, Joe Davis, who was
just an assistant at that time, they never caught
anybody. for pulling the steel. Did you students
know who the two guilty parties, the four guilty
parties? I knew two of them. But you all knew who
they were? Oh yes, oh yes. Let's see, how did, when
you went on a court trip, how did that first year,
how did you get there? By some, or any way you could.
But did you hitchhike? Oh yes, yes. Describe how an
Aggie hitchhiked in that era. What'd you wear?
Where'd you catch the ride? Well, we usually
caught out right up there at, which
was East Gate. And there's very, very definite
strict rules about hitchhiking. You'd go out and
you'd get in line. You'd put on a little suitcase or
whatever and It might be a long line, but the ones
that were there first went out first, and this had
absolutely nothing to do with whether you were a
senior freshman or whatever. This was who was
there first. And
sometimes they wouldn't take a ride. Maybe the
ride would just be to Hearn, and the guy would say,
no thanks, I don't want that. Well, then the next
guy got a choice, and so on and so forth. And
speaking of that, one time I remember taking the
line to go towards, we were going to San Antonio,
and the line towards Austin was so long that I don't
think I'd ever gotten out that a fella stopped and
said, he's going to Caldwell. Nobody wanted to
ride to Caldwell, so another fella and I took the
ride to Caldwell. Then when we got to Caldwell, we
caught right north to, well, we ended up in Taylor.
I've forgotten, Cameron. We went up to Cameron and
then over to Taylor. And by this time, it's the
Friday night football game. It's just over in
Taylor. So you can see it took us a little while to
get there. and there were some girls driving
around in the car, and we got to talking to them.
They stopped, and we finally talked them into, if
we'd buy them two gallons of gas, would they drive
us down to Austin? And they did. So anyway, but the
Corps trips, we had great times. I know The year we
went to Fort Worth,
God, there must have been 10 of us in that room. I
don't know whose room it was, but it was just a place
to lay down and sleep. That was the year that we
had to publicly give back the Horned Frog flag. And
we had a couple of boys that during the game went up
that flagpole and took that pennant loose and came
back down and got away without being caught. Now,
you know, if I don't know if you're familiar with
the stadium at that time, but the flagpole was at
the north end and the play, everything was going on
down at the south end at that time and it was rather
tense and these two guys were up that pole and had
that deal and were getting ready to come down
before anybody really noticed that they were
there before the crowd turned around and by the
time they hit the ground they were gone and anyway
they had to make a presentation back to Did you ever
have a bad experience as an Aggie hitchhiker?
I'm going to answer this like you don't want to
hear, but I say no. I've not had a single negative
report yet. Did you have any humorous events while
hitchhiking? Goofy? Well, I... I had a very
embarrassing event one time, and a fellow and I had
caught a ride. And by the way, this was to Caldwell
again. And
so happened the gentleman we caught a ride with was
a preacher.
a boy I was with, nice, I mean, true blue kind of a
friend and so on and so forth, but a rather raucous,
rough type fella. And his language was really
pretty bad and the preacher took him to task and
gave him quite a quite a little sermon
which was well deserved well deserved but it was
still embarrassing it was still embarrassing
but anyway that's a
but all right then back to uh football that year um
let's see this is that's the year that the
university of texas was hoping to go to the Rose
Bowl. No, no, no, no, it was the, that was in 39 that
A&M was, 41, 40 when A&M was going to the Rose Bowl.
40, all right, then 41. 41, we won the conference,
but we lost to Texas. Yes, yes. They beat us
20-something to 27 to nothing there at Caulfield.
And do you remember that game? No, because I didn't
see that game. Oh, you were home? Yes. How,
normally, particularly your first year, when did
you go home, go back home first? That was the first
time I went home. Okay. And how'd you get back and
forth? I,
I hitchhiked home, and the reason I went home was it
was a four-day holiday. And in order to stay till
the last minute at home, I went back on a train. The
only time I think I ever went anywhere up there that
wasn't hitchhiking or later on I had an old car that
I had bought from working in Laredo. But I rode that
train to
Milano Junction. And then we had to get off the
train and wait there in that
old station. And then another train came through
and you got on that and rode down into College
Station. But other than that, I had
Working in Laredo, I had saved up a little bit of
money, and I'd boughten, boughten, I had bought a
car. I'd paid, let's see, I think, I think I paid 92
or 93 dollars for that. And what year was that?
Well, this was in, this was in 40 or 41 that I bought
it. And it was a 32 Ford. But I think
I paid about $90, something like that. But you
didn't bring it to the campus? No, not when I was a
freshman. I took it up there later as a sophomore.
And I didn't have it too long. I mean, we had one of
those
freezes come through where we were playing
football, touch football that afternoon in
shorts. And that night one of those blue norther
came in and I had no antifreeze or anything in that
thing and the next morning when I went out I mean
there was rivulets of ice where the head had broken
on that. Anyway, I think I got about $20 for that
thing salvaged. But anyway, I got a big kick out of
that having that car because Buck was running,
Buck Weiris was running Aggieland that year. As a
freshman, Curly Bryant was the head of the
Aggieland Orchestra and Buck played the drums in
it. But as a sophomore, Buck was heading it up and I
went two or three different places with him on and
they'd have a date to play, and I'd take about four
of them in my car, and they'd pay the gasoline and my
meals and get me into the dance free, you know, and
so on and so forth. So I enjoyed that. Now, don't
have any information about the Aggieland
Orchestra. You don't? So please describe it as
much as you can. Oh, let me tell you, they were
great. I'm telling you, they were really great.
The... They had,
well, and we had something to judge them by, too,
because we had some great bands come to the campus.
Jan Garber came, Jimmy Lunsford, Skinny Ennis.
They were great. And we liked to get black bands
down there for one reason mainly. They couldn't
get any pickup musicians. Now, when Skinny Ennis
came, you see, he'd stop in Dallas, he'd bring
himself, and he had a trombone player that most
people knew, and a couple of others, and he'd bring
about four of his regular band. And then he'd stop
in Dallas and get some pickup musicians and come on
down, you see. But if you got a black band, they had
to come pretty well intact. And Jimmy Lunsford had
a great band at that time. If you remember the song
Blues in the Night, well Lunsford had a record that
had Blues in the Night on both sides of it, and he had
the premier arrangement of that. But anyway,
getting back to the Aggieland Orchestra, they had
a piano man named Dinkle Webb. And one of our
classmates,
Murphy, Bill Murphy from Paris, Texas, played
sax.
Don Hackney from over at
I can't think of the name of the town. Where's the
Crown Colony Golf Course? Lufkin. He was, he's
retired. He was head of Temple. Temple Industry.
Yeah. And he played clarinet and was a heck of a
clarinet player. And Buck played the drums. I
can't remember. And they did what we would now call
big band music. Oh, yes, yes. Yeah, they had about,
it was about a 10-piece, 10 or 12-piece orchestra.
And they played all around, or dances at different
schools and everything. And at that time, there
was a radio program that came on on Sunday nights
out of New York. called the Fitch Bandwagon. And
they had, they featured new bands and things like
that. And they got the Aggieland Orchestra, paid
their expenses and everything to come to New York
and play on the Fitch Bandwagon. And they were
great. And what did you all do that night?
Listened. Just listened. Yeah, no, they was a,
they were great. I wish, I wish Buck was living.
Buck could tell you more stories about And they
were all students. Oh, yes. And they got, for that
era, they got a good bit of money. They would make a
little bit of spending money? Yes. When you say
good bit of money, you know... nothing today
absolutely actually for the trip to new york they
got their expenses that's all and but the the just
think of the pride of that something like that
where did they practice mostly i guess it's over in
sebasa okay and did they have distinctive aggie
band uniforms when they when they were the agulha
they played the For the most part, they'd wear a
tuxedo. Their tuxedos? Yeah. And their name was
the Aggieland? The Aggieland Orchestra. As far as
you know, when was it organized?
Seems like there was a fella.
The earliest one, to my knowledge, was a fella
named Little John, I believe. And after him, I
think, then was Curly Bryant, and then Buck. So,
late 30s? I would guess that's probably right. It
could have been... I'm really... Let's see. No,
I'd say early to middle 30s. I'd say middle 30s. And
then it ceases with the war. Let's say it was
interrupted. Oh, did they recreate it? Yes.
What's his name... And Joe Haney, after the war,
and how long after the war, I don't know when they
recreated the Aggieland, but they were, Joe Haney
was bandmaster and he had a young gentleman under
him named Brewster. Brewster. Nice, nice young
man. Now, were all the members in your day, were all
the members of the Aggieland Orchestra also in the
Aggie marching band?
I'm trying to think. No. No, they weren't because
Buck was never in the band. That's what I thought.
Murphy was. I don't think Deagle Webb was.
I don't think Curly Bryant was. But there was no
requirement one way or another. The Anglin was a
separate entity unto itself. It had no... No
faculty advisor? No, no, no. Absolutely nothing.
We had a lot of things at A&M that had no... you know
it was just the thing they did and everybody i i do
have to say that
there was an amazing amount of uh self-control on
things like that. They were handled. I'm sorry to
take. No, no, no, no, no, no. I'm just checking.
Yeah. So how much more time we have? Because I've
got the whole afternoon. The world then changed
for your generation and mine on December 7th. Yes,
sir. Describe as much as you can where you were,
what happened that day and the next day for you and
your friends. I was at the dormitory.
For some reason, I don't know, most everybody
liked to go to the movie on Sunday afternoon, and I
was amongst them. However, for some reason this
Sunday, whether they had something on that, I
didn't like or whether it was too crowded or I don't
know, but I didn't go. I was, I was there. And
just taking it easy. And all of a sudden somebody
stood running out and you heard somebody yelling
out in the outside saying, we're at war, we're at
war, we're at war. What in the hell's going on, you
know? And I went down. Well, they had stopped the
movie at Northgate and announced what had taken
place. And at first, we didn't believe it, you
know. But as
far as every little thing that took place,
everybody was talking at once. you know, already
conjecting
what was going to happen, whether they were going
to take us into the service immediately or what we
were going to do and all this kind of stuff. And
I guess some of the sophomores decided that we
better have a little drill or something, so they
started marching us around a bit.
It was just something, electricity in the air,
that really never went away. Did the routine
change in the dormitory and classes and drills
pretty quickly? Not a whole lot, except people did
take the military classes a little more seriously
than they had prior to that. And everybody wanted
to be be sure they got a contract. You're familiar
with what I mean when I say got a contract, okay. And
we, in fact, that sent a lot of us to, OCS probably
kept a lot of boys from getting killed if you want to
be perfectly frank about it, because when we,
after we went into the service, We were brought
back to campus, and then after we were there a
certain time, they sent us all off to a basic
training. Didn't have any OCS to send us to
immediately after we finished basic training, so
they sent us back to A&M. And then they started
pulling us out a few at a time. And my group was sent
back to Fort Sill. We were in artillery. Sent back
to Fort Sill and assigned to the school troops. And
they were going to take us out a few at a time into the
Officer Candidate School. They only took one
bunch out. And after that, they came in one day and
says, Everybody put your A bag, your B bag, you're
shipping out tomorrow at noon. So we thought we
were just going to go across to the OCS area. And a
lot of boys left radios and things like that.
They'd come back and pick them up later. Well, they
came back and picked us up. They took us to the train
station and they sent us to Fort Benning, Georgia.
And through an infantry basic, again, and then
through infantry OCS and then shipped out from
there. So all that delay of this thing, this thing
and that delayed everybody being sent into actual
action and probably saved a lot of us from being
being killed. All right. When did you and your
colleagues first leave the campus as a part of
these changes? Your second year? Let's see. Yes.
The 42-43 year. Yeah, that's right. All right. So
during the spring of 1942, you're still taking
freshman classes, but life is getting more
serious. Right. Did some folks start going to
church more regularly? You know...
I didn't really notice. I
usually went, I wasn't a regular attendee, but I
went to the Methodist Church at Northgate, and I
didn't notice a big increase, to tell you the
truth. Describe the YMCA and what it represented
in those days at A&M under Mr. Cashin. Well, the
YMCA was
with the exception of the pool room at Wardrop's
down at Northgate upstairs over Wardrop's store.
The YMCA was about it as far as recreation other
than the They did have some handball courts down, I
think about three or four courts down there behind
the gym. And they had a two or three lane bowling
alley in the basement of the Y, which if there
wasn't a senior using it or a junior or a sophomore,
which was never, you could use it. They did have a
soda fountain there, and it was a nice area,
really. That's where we'd always go to make
telephone calls. That's where the pay phones
were. Did you know Mr. Cashin? No, I didn't. Did you
know either of the boys, Red or Jim? Red, yeah. I
knew Red real well, but not at that time. I knew Red
later on after,
well, I guess Red had already started his... NFL
officiating? I don't know if he was in the NFL yet,
but he was officiating quite a bit. I had met Red
through Pat Knight. Pat was, even though he was a
bit younger than I, we were very close friends, and
I met Red through him, and also, I was always very
active in Laredo in the Border Olympics. I was head
of that a couple of years, and Colonel Andy
Anderson and I were good friends, and I would, I
refereed at the, Colley Station relays a couple of
years.